EDU-18550 - Align internationalization docs with Catalog Translation API recommendation (#2752)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/guides/vtex-io/Storefront-Guides/vtex-io-multi-language-stores.md

Reviewer: Adicionar pronome possessivo (user -> user's).
```markdown
Note that after detecting a user's locale, every message from your frontend component set as translatable will be automatically translated either by the automatic translation service, the frontend app's messages, or custom content personalized through a GraphQL mutation at the account level.
```

Author: ```suggestion
A Store Framework storefront consists of multiple frontend apps built with VTEX IO and React. For translations, Store Framework uses the [react-intl](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-intl) library and the VTEX IO Messages app.
```

Reviewer: Mudar de voz passiva para ativa.
```markdown
2. If the Messages app doesn't find any custom definitions, it checks for frontend app translations in the app's `/messages` folder.
```

Author: ```suggestion
2. If the Messages app doesn't find any custom definitions, it checks for frontend app translations in the app's `/messages` folder.
3. ```

Internationalization is crucial for reaching global markets and providing a seamless shopping experience for customers from different locales. This guide covers how Store Framework handles internationalization for both storefront content and catalog data, highlighting the tools and libraries used for translations.

## Before you begin

Before starting the internationalization process, understand the distinction between frontend app messages and catalog data.

In general, **storefront content** can be sourced from either **frontend React apps** or the **[Catalog API](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/catalog-api#overview)**. More precisely, app messages are translatable strings defined within a frontend app, while catalog messages comprise external data from the Catalog API. Therefore, consider these differences when translating storefront content, as internationalization is handled differently for each case.

## Frontend app messages

A Store Framework storefront consists of multiple frontend apps built with VTEX IO and React. For translations, Store Framework uses the [react-intl](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-intl) library and the VTEX IO Messages app.

> Moreover, developers can designate text components as translatable messages when developing a frontend app using the `<Formatted*>` component from the `react-intl` library. This enables translatable messages to be automatically translated by an automatic translation service based on the user's locale.

Reviewer: Especificar "This".
```suggestion
Moreover, developers can designate text components as translatable messages when developing a frontend app using the `<Formatted*>` component from the `react-intl` library. This designation enables translatable messages to be automatically translated by an automatic translation service based on the user's locale.
```

### Automatic translations

By leveraging the automatic translation service, the Messages app can translate frontend app messages based on the user's locale. The user's current locale and the translated messages obtained from the automatic translation system are accessible at the root of the component tree and available to each component.

However, automatic translations may not always be culturally accurate. To address this, the Messages app provides features for managing custom translations. If preferred, it is also possible to [disable the automatic translation service](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-disabling-automatic-translation).

### Customizing automatic translations

To address potential cultural inaccuracies in automatic translations, the Messages app provides features for managing custom translations. Developers can override an automatic translation with more specific or representative content for their store, such as a special login message for Spanish-speaking users in Argentina.

> Custom translations can be implemented at either the app or account level:

Reviewer: Mudar de voz passiva para ativa.
```suggestion
You can implement custom translations at either the app or account level:
```

> - **App-level translations**: Developers can set personalized translations for each locale within the frontend app's `/messages` folder. These translations are applied by default to any store that uses the app. To learn how to set messages during the development of a React app, please follow this [guide](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-8-translating-the-component).

Reviewer: - Mudar de voz passiva para ativa.
- Usar nome do guia na referência.
```suggestion
- **App-level translations**: Developers can set personalized translations for each locale within the frontend app's `/messages` folder. The app applies these translations by default to any store that uses it. To learn how to set messages during the development of a React app, please follow this [Translating the component](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-8-translating-the-component) guide.
```

> - **Account-level translations**: Developers can overwrite a message imported from a frontend app with a completely customized message, making the appropriate GraphQL API request to the Messages app. To learn how to overwrite a message from a frontend app, follow the [Translating storefront content](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/storefront-content-internationalization) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Account-level translations**: Developers can overwrite a message imported from a frontend app with a completely customized message by making the appropriate GraphQL API request to the Messages app. To learn how to overwrite a message from a frontend app, follow the [Translating storefront content](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/storefront-content-internationalization) guide.
```

slug: "vtex-io-multi-language-stores"
hidden: false
createdAt: "2020-08-31T17:15:01.754Z"

> updatedAt: "2026-06-16T13:43:00.948Z"

Author: ```suggestion
updatedAt: "2026-07-27T13:43:00.948Z"
```

### Customizing automatic translations

To address potential cultural inaccuracies in automatic translations, the Messages app provides functionalities to manage custom translations. Developers can override an automatic translation with more specific or representative content for their store, such as a special login message for Spanish-speaking users in Argentina.

Custom translations can be implemented at either the app or account level:

> - **App-level translations**: Developers can set personalized translations for each locale within the frontend app's `/messages` folder. These translations are applied, by default, to any store using the app. To learn how to set messages during the development of a React app, please follow this [guide](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-8-translating-the-component).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **App-level translations**: Developers can set personalized translations for each locale within the frontend app's `/messages` folder. These translations are applied, by default, to any store using the app. To learn how to set messages during the development of a React app, follow the [Translating the component](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/vtex-io-documentation-8-translating-the-component) guide.
```

> - **Account-level translations**: Developers can overwrite a message imported from a frontend app with a completely customized message, making the appropriate GraphQL API request to the Messages app. To learn how to overwrite a message from a frontend app, please follow this [guide](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/storefront-content-internationalization).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Account-level translations**: Developers can overwrite a message imported from a frontend app with a completely customized message, making the appropriate GraphQL API request to the Messages app. To learn how to overwrite a message from a frontend app, follow the [Translating storefront content](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/storefront-content-internationalization) guide.
```

> As translating an app to every language can be daunting, it is recommended to structure precise translations for the target audience and rely on automatic translation for other languages.

Reviewer: Mudar de voz passiva para ativa.
```suggestion
As translating an app to every language can be daunting, we recommend structuring precise translations for the target audience and relying on automatic translation for other languages.
```

> After detecting a user's locale, every message from your frontend component that is set as translatable will be automatically translated by the automatic translation service, the frontend app's messages, or custom content personalized through a GraphQL mutation at the account level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After detecting a user's locale, every message from your frontend component marked as translatable will be automatically translated using the automatic translation service, the frontend app's messages, or custom content personalized via a GraphQL mutation at the account level.
```

## Catalog data

Catalog messages include product names and product descriptions from the store catalog.

> >ℹ️ We recommend using the [Catalog Multi-Language API](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/catalog-multi-language-integration-guide) to manage catalog translations. It provides granular control over translations for products, SKUs, categories, brands, and other entities, while integrating natively with Intelligent Search and supporting Translation Management Systems (TMS). To learn how to implement it, see the [Catalog multi-language integration guide](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/catalog-multi-language-integration-guide).

Reviewer: Mudar link para API reference.
```suggestion
>ℹ️ We recommend using the [Catalog Multi-Language API](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/api-reference/catalog-api#get-/api/catalog/pvt/product/-productId-/language) to manage catalog translations. It provides granular control over translations for products, SKUs, categories, brands, and other entities, while integrating natively with Intelligent Search and supporting Translation Management Systems (TMS). To learn how to implement it, see the [Catalog multi-language integration guide](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/catalog-multi-language-integration-guide).
```

All data from the Catalog API is already set as translatable. The GraphQL approach is to override automatic catalog translation by sending the appropriate GraphQL query to the Catalog API or the Messages app. To learn how to overwrite a catalog message via the GraphQL API, follow the [Translating Catalog content](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/catalog-internationalization) guide.

> >⚠️ Simultaneous use of the Catalog Multi-Language API and the GraphQL (Messages) approach is not supported for catalog entities. Once the Catalog Multi-Language feature is activated for your account, you will no longer be able to manage translations using GraphQL.

Reviewer: Mudar de voz passiva para ativa.
```suggestion
>⚠️ Simultaneous use of the Catalog Multi-Language API and the GraphQL (Messages) approach is not supported for catalog entities. After activating the Catalog Multi-Language feature for your account, you'll no longer be able to manage translations using GraphQL.
```

## Catalog data

Catalog messages include product names and product descriptions from the store catalog.

> ℹ️ We recommend using the [Catalog Multi-Language API](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/catalog-multi-language-integration-guide) to manage catalog translations. It provides granular control over translations for products, SKUs, categories, brands, and other entities, while integrating natively with Intelligent Search and supporting Translation Management Systems (TMS). To learn how to implement it, see the [Catalog multi-language integration guide](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/catalog-multi-language-integration-guide).

> All data from the Catalog API is already set as translatable. The GraphQL approach is to override automatic catalog translation by sending the appropriate GraphQL query to the Catalog API or the Messages app. To learn how to overwrite a catalog message via the GraphQL API, please follow the [Translating Catalog content](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/catalog-internationalization) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All data from the Catalog API is already set as translatable. The GraphQL approach is to override automatic catalog translation by sending the appropriate GraphQL query to the Catalog API or the Messages app. To learn how to overwrite a catalog message via the GraphQL API, follow the [Translating Catalog content](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/catalog-internationalization) guide.
```
